### Web Applications as Application Layers
#### Karim Alibhai

---

### Let's talk work from the ground up

----

### Basic Input Output System (BIOS)

 - The BIOS is a piece of software that is ***hard-coded*** into a computer responsible for loading and providing a low-level interface for communicating with all hardware (both internal and external).
 - This includes the fundamental components of the computer such as the hard drive (HDD), the random-access memory (RAM), and the keyboard/mouse.
 - It also includes extra things that you may plug in such as webcams and gaming controllers.

----

### How do we communicate with the BIOS?

 - We don't.
 - The BIOS is the lowest level in the software layers of a computer and therefore it is not meant to be interacted with by user-level applications.
 - As we climb higher up in the layers, the interfaces for communicating with various devices will wrap on top of each other and provide us with easier to use interfaces.
 - We will refer to interfaces closer to the system as 'low-level' and interfaces higher up as 'high-level'.

----

### Pros & Cons of an High-Level Interface

 - Pro: It is ***much*** easier to manipulate and learn than the low-level interfaces.
 - Con: You have significantly less control.
 - For example: recovering deleted files off the HDD.
    - Not possible with a high-level interface...
    - ... because it is basically a hack on top of the way that the HDD is designed to function.

---

### So now what is the 'OS'?

----

### The OS is...

 - The Operating System.
 - The software on a computer that is responsible for managing all applications, memory, and peripheral devices.
 - It provides an interface between the core functionality of the computer (reading from the hard disk, communicating with the 