# Day #2

---

## `TODO:`

 - **Review**
 - **Lesson 2:** What on Earth is a web app?
 - **Lesson 3:** How Web Servers Chat
 - Some time to work on your projects

---

## Review

 - What system handles long-term data storage and retreival?
 - What is a path?
 - What makes a path absolute or relative?
 - What are the key differences between a Windows and Linux FS?
 - What does `IP` stand for (in IP address)?
 - What are the two most common networking protocols?
 - When should you use TCP over UDP?
 - What must we do to code before it can be run on a computer?
 - What is the difference between high-level and low-level (in computers)?

----

## The Native App

 - Must be compiled to run on the computer.
 - Has access to all the interfaces that the OS makes available.

----

## Interpreted Languages

 - Cannot access anything outside of their interpreters.
 - Any language can be interpreted, but all languages have an official (or most common) standard.
 - Some are read and executed top-to-bottom, some are only read top-to-bottom.

---

## **Lesson 2:** What on Earth is a web app?

Note: W3 - A system to globally distribute information on the internet.

---

## The Web Server

 - Websites are stored as a group of resources on a web server.
 - The server is essentially responsible for content delivery.
 - Web browsers request a web page (written in HTML) from the server.
 - During loading of the page, the browser will request all needed assets from the server.

---

## The Web Browser

 - Web pages are HTML files.
 - Flow of displaying a web app:
  - Render HTML top to bottom.
  - If there are any asset imports, fetch assets and process them.
  - If CSS is loaded, render using CSS engine and re-render whenever the HTML updates.
  - If JS is loaded, execute the code using the JS engine.

----

## Notes on the Browser

 - All web browsers are different.
 - Always native applications.
 - Web browsers are very low-level but websites are very high-level.

---

## Sandboxing
 
 - Websites live only within the confines of the web browser.
 - The web browser restricts websites into a sandbox with no OS access.
 - Websites can only access limited resources as allowed by the browser.
 - For this reason, web apps are often thought to be limited and useless.

----

## The Strengths of a Web App

 - All OS-related access (networking, filesystems, etc.) can be handled on the backend.
 - The front-end is very capable of adjusting to every platform that supports a web browser.
 - Nothing is ever compiled and so you can get rid of the concepts of:
  - Software updates
  - Prerequisites
  - System requirements
  - Administrator access

---

## **Lesson 3:** How Web Servers Chat

---

## The Networking Specifics

 - All web traffic happens over TCP.
 - Port 80 is for regular web traffic.
 - Port 443 is for secure web traffic.
 - These are defaults but other ports are allowed.
 - For example, entering `google.com:8080` in your browser will use port 8080.
 - For the web browser, different ports = different domains.

---

## The Hypertext Transfer Protocol

 - Protocol for communication between the web server and web browser.
 - Consists of two types of data packets: requests and responses.
 - All HTTP data is defined to maintain this format:
  - A single line specifying the protocol version and status code or request method.
  - A certain number of HTTP defined key-value pairs known as `headers`.
  - All data related to the request/response.

---

## Two More Special Characters

 - At the base level, all text is saved as a sequence of bytes.
 - Bytes are numbers that represent each individual character.
 - The translation from byte to character is defined by a character set.
 - The line feed is a type of whitespace character on all systems. (LF)
 - The carriage return is a special character for use in console applications.
  - LF = newline on *nix
  - CRLF = newline on Windows

----

## Escape Sequences

 - `\ ` = single whitespace character.
 - `\n` = LF
 - `\r` = CR

---

## That First Line

 - Different for requests and responses.
 - Requests must specify the request method, resource name, and HTTP version.
 - For instance:
  - `GET /some-file HTTP/1.1`
  - `POST /some-file HTTP/1.1`

---

## HTTP Headers

 - Consist of two important parts: a key and a value.

----

## Request Headers

 - `Host:` defines the host you are visiting.
 - `User-Agent:` a really long string defining the OS and browser you are visiting from.
 - `Accept:` defines the mimetype of the content the browser is expecting.
 - and MANY more...

----

## Response Headers

 - `Server:` like user-agent but shorter and describes the server.
 - `Content-Type:` the mimetype of the incoming content.
 - and MANY more...