# Day #3

---

## `TODO:`

 - Explore powerful web apps
 - Install some software
 - **Lesson 3:** The Black Screen with the Green Text
 - **Lesson 4:** The Many Lives of your App
 - **Lesson 5:** The Space where you Code

---

# Popular Web Apps

----

## Netflix

 - Majority of netflix users use the web-based version
 - Supports all platforms due to web
 - CSS is what styles all the pretty things (i.e. full screen videos, controls, etc.)
 - JavaScript is what gives it functionality (i.e. the link between the controls and the video)

----

## Facebook

 - Started in 2004 and still up to date
 - Used so much JavaScript at one point that the size of the JS on their page was 1 MB
 - Web app is available on all platforms, regardless of Facebook mobile app
 - Large CSS base that themes all pages with the iconic Facebook blue
 - JavaScript powers actions such as language change dialog, chat, posts, etc.

----

## Amazon & eBay

 - Handle several billions of dollars of shopping every year
 - Handle more online shopping revenue than all of the U.S. handles for in-store revenue
 - Entirely web-based (until the recent mobile apps)
 - Dynamic CSS base that modifies the website to adjust to every platform
 - JavaScript powers features such as sort (by price, relevance, etc.) and filtering (by Prime)

----

## Paypal

 - Known as the most trustworthy and secure payment platform
 - Entirely web-based business infrastructure
 - Recently moved their entire back-end to Node.js (the back-end language of choice for this class)
 - Very impressive and beautiful CSS base (constantly kept up to date - even with animations)
 - JavaScript handles connectivity between PayPal and other websites, fetching your credit card information, and more

---

# Installations

----

### What you need to download

 - For Windows users:
  - Download [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
  - **Choose `Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style endings`**
  - **Choose `Use Git and optional tools from command prompt`**
 - For Mac OS X users:
  - Install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)
  - After installation, open terminal and run `brew install git`
  - Provide your password as required

---

## **Lesson 3:** The Black Screen with the Green Text

---

## What is a terminal?

 - A terminal is essentially a window into something
 - All computer terminals are windows into a `shell`
 - A shell is a little bit like an interpreter: it provides virtual higher-level access to you
 - All instructions given to a shell are called commands
 - Commands have a pretty simple `syntax`

----

## The Syntax of a Command

 - Everything written within one line is executed together
 - Everything within this one line is separated using a single whitespace
 - The command is only the first word that you write (i.e. `a b c` => the command is `a`)
 - Flags are how you pass options to the command
  - The full form of a flag is with two dashes: `--myoption myvalue`
  - The short form of a flag is with one dash: `-o myvalue`
  - The value following your flag becomes the option's value.
  - Not all options need explicit values, some options are booleans.

----

## The `echo` command

 - Prints exactly what you tell it to, and then a newline
 - To avoid printing the newline, use the flag `n` (i.e. `echo -n "hello"`)
 - To use escape sequence, use the flag `e` (i.e. `echo -e "\n"`)
 - That's all.

---

## Let's do Some Group Work

 - We will split into two halves (one for each TA)
 - Each half will be taught half the commands
 - You will all be assigned a random partner and given 30 mins to teach each other
 - After this, choose a command to play with further and teach something new to the class (you can use Google)

---

## Commands for Group #1

 - `cat`: print a file to the command-line.
 - `grep`: search for something within a file.
 - `rm`: delete a file or directory. 
 - `less`: provides a scrollable version of cat.
 - `alias`: sets a command-line alias for a command.
 - `unalias`: unsets a command-line alias.

---

## Commands for Group #2

 - `pwd`: show current directory.
 - `cd`: change directory.
 - `mkdir`: make a directory.
 - `ls`: list all files and directories in the current directory.
 - `cp`: copy a file/directory.
 - `mv`: move a file/directory.

---

## **Lesson 4:** The Many Lives of your App

---

## **Lesson 5:** The Space where you Code

---

## What you need to download

 - Download and install [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com)

----

## Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

 - A big fancy term for the environment within which you write your code.
 - Environments built for low-level languages typically include a compiler.
 - We will use a simple environment that simply has a text editor.
 - The benefit of using an IDE instead of Notepad is that the IDE has:
  - `Syntax highlighting`: various keywords in your code are automatically highlighted.
  - `Autocompletion`: your IDE will guess how you wish to complete your code which saves time.

----

## Why VSCode?

 - `Intellisense` is MS's famous auto-completion engine, it is included in VSCode
 - `Emmett`: auto-expands HTML code (we will use this next class).
 - Built-in support for Git