# Answer Key for 08/12

 1. TCP vs. UDP

  - E-mail: TCP
   - Data loss is not acceptable
  - File transfer: TCP
   - Data loss is not acceptable
  - DNS: UDP
   - Data loss is fine during resolution
  - Media streaming: UDP
   - Loosing a few frames of a video are alright
   - Speed is more necessary
  - Wifi-based game controllers: UDP
   - Data loss is alright
   - Speed is more necessary
  - Remote computer access: TCP
   - You need to know if the two computers are connected
   - Note: if you're streaming the computer's screen as a video, the rules of media streaming apply - use UDP.
  - Internet banking: TCP
   - A guaranteed connection is necessary
   - Data loss is not acceptable
  - iMessage: TCP
   - Data loss is not acceptable

 2. What is the purpose of DNS?

  - To allow domain names to be used for networking instead of IP addresses.
  - This allows for the server behind the domain to be changeable at any time, the IP of the server can be easily changed, etc.

 3. How are markup languages different from programming languages?

  - Language for annotating and defining information
  - Programming languages are for instructing the computer to do things

 4. How are JPEG files flagged as images on both Windows and Linux filesystems?
  - On Windows, it is the `.jpeg` file extension that gives it away.
  - On Linux, the filesystem checks the file content to detect the document type.

 5. A server application wishes to open some ports. For which of the following ports will the application require admin/root access?

  - 3036: no.
  - 52: yes.
  - 999: yes.
  - 65032: no.
  - 333: yes.
  - 1: yes.
  - 80: yes.
